---
tags:
  - 英语
---
# 作文结构

## 小作文

### 第一段
- **背景提要**
  - **私人信件**: I hope this email finds you well and I am + 情感 to hear that.
  - **公务信件**: 自我介绍。
- **来信意图**
  - I am writing this letter in order to +
    - invite you to participate in (邀请信)
    - inquire something about... (咨询信)
    - make several suggestions about... (建议信)
    - recommend ... to you (推荐信)
    - appreciate your... (感谢信)
    - apologize for my... (道歉信)
    - praise... (表扬信)
    - file a complaint about... (投诉信)
    - apply for a position as an assistant (求职信)
    - request to resign from my present position (辞职信)
    - request your … (请求信)

### 第二段
- **过渡句**: The detailed reasons for sth can be given as follows (对别人) / There stand at least two/three factors accounting for my...(对自己)
- **分点阐述**
  - 地点+时间+安排: is scheduled in 某地 on Friday from 7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m
  - 交代人物: All students from all grades are eligible to enter the competition, including national and international students.
  - 通用:
    - We are badly in need of sth, which can help us do sth.
    - Due to sth, it's convenient/inconvenient/possible/impossible for us to do sth.
    - I wonder if you can do sth, so that I can do sth.
    - We could have more opportunities to do sth if you improve sth.
    - It is advisable to do sth, which can really help you.
    - sth provides a unique opportunity to let you explore yourself with creativity.
    - sth allows you to engage with different cultures and social customs.

### 第三段
- **表示情感**
  - Please accept my sincere apology for any inconveniences that I have caused (道歉信).
  - We would appreciate it very much if you could accept our invitation (邀请信).
  - If you need more information about the book/movie/journey, please let me know (推荐信).
  - I would like to express gratitude for your kind consideration of my suggestion/application (建议信/申请信).
  - I will be grateful if my proposals/complaints are considered and positive changes take place in these regards (建议信/投诉信).
- **期待回信**: I am looking forward to your reply at your earliest convenience.

## 大作文

### 第一段
- **图表描述**
  - **总体**: According to the figures given by the chart (table/bar chart/line chart/pie chart).
  - **细节**: increase/rise/grow/expand/climb (普通增加), rocket/soar/jump/surge (激增), decrease/reduce/decline/diminish/shrink (普通减少), be flat/stand at/stay at (持平), vary/fluctuate/rise and fall/undulate (波动), drop/fall/plunge (跳水).
  - **时间**: between…and… / from … to… / during the period from… to… / throughout the past XX years/.

### 主题阐述
- **过渡句**: These data lead us to the conclusion that… / The chart appears to convey a message to teenagers and young people, reminding them that...
- **社会现象**: This is not an uncommon scene/phenomenon in our life.

### 第二段
- **原因分析**
  - **过渡句**: There exist plenty of causes accounting for the phenomenon in various aspects.
  - **连接词**:
    - Firstly; Secondly; Thirdly
    - To begin with; What’s more; Last but not least
    - Above all; Furthermore; In the end
    - On the one hand; On the other hand
    - For one thing; For another
  - **例子**
    1. Examples abound, however I can think of no better illustration than my roommate.
    2. The majority of people believe that 主题词 will provide them with a broader platform to 主题词带来的好处 (do Sth.), which may put them in a beneficial position in the future.
    3. In contrast to B, the advantage of A is to 某方面.

### 第三段
- **总结**
  - **主语从句**: It is not difficult to draw the conclusion that enough attention must be turned to the scene/phenomenon/situation/tendency by ourselves personally and our community.
  - **bear in mind**: We should bear in mind that people's health literacy is of great importance to our life.
  - **There is no denying that**: Further attention must be paid to the … mentioned above.
- **趋势预测**
  - **过渡句**: Judging from all factors offered/Taking into account all these factors, we may reasonably draw the conclusion that…
  - With the changes of period and the advances of the society, the number of people choose to do sth will keep increasing/decreasing in the days to come.
  - **现象** + and this trend will not change recently.

### 可选建议
- **法律保护**: It is imperative for the authorities to make strict laws to protect the environment.
- **公民意识**: We should enhance children and adults' awareness of …
- **个人行为**: We ought to spare no pains to …
- **媒体呼吁**: Mass media, such as … should appeal people to …
- **家庭教育**: Parents and teachers can set a good example for children about … through their own behavior.

### 展望未来
- If all above mentioned measures are achieved, harmony between A and B will be not far away.
- Only through the joint efforts of all people can we solve the problem/have a better life.

## 画图描述
给一张图，让我们分析
It is symbolically illustrated in the picture that
It is symbolically illustrated in the picture that 
What looks beyond dispute in the drawing is that
### 第一段：环境+动作（do）+主体(sb)+动作(doing)+with+细节
As is symbolically illustrated in the picture above, on the playground runs a young man, active as well as vigorous, rushing to the finishing line, with a smile on his face.
As is symbolically illustrated in the picture above, in the middle of the picture, a small flame burning on an oil lamp, disperse the darkness, with a smile on its face.
### 第一段：主题描述
The purpose of the drawing seems to remind teenagers and youngsters that 主题词 is so important that the problem deserves the highest level of attention and consideration.

## 文字作文
### 第一段：文字改写+表明态度
#### 改写现象+改写观点
改写现象：Nowadays, gaining trust from others is vital in the workplace. Many people are afraid of damaging their image by appearing unsure.
改写观点：While the author believes that we are perceived as less biased and willing to tell the truth when we show uncertainty in a transparent way.
#### 表明态度,表示自己有多同意作者观点
## 万能句
### 经济
The access to ... has become less a problem for the Chinese, thanks to the country's booming economy (that powers higher consumption)/(that leads to overall societal prosperity)
### 社会
A shift in public mindset from ... to ... could mold the pattern of .../contribute to a adj. number of sth.
### 政府
The government's effort in doing sth is an impetus for..., led to improved (public infrastructure)
### 科技
A positive impact of technologies, such as (AI), enables a higher level of (doing sth)
### 文化
The country’s cultural depth and dynamism encourages sb to… This would translate into a rising/shrinking number of …

通知
I'm an menber of Students Union and I'm pleasure that a singing contest is going to be held in our university on Feb 10th, these inform is intended to introduce some details of this contest.
As mentioned above, this contest is scheduled on Friday from 8:00PM to 10:00PM. All students from all grade is eligible to enter this singing competition, including national and international students. In terms of ecouragenment, the top three student will recive awards and some small present, and all shortlisted participants will recerive bonus points.
Put it into practice! If you are interested in singing, this will be a good oppertunity for you to present yourself. We are looking forward to your enthusiastic paticipants. Please email us at 123456@qq.com to sign up.